+++
title = "Version 4.2.4 (April 2019)"

date = 2019-04-17T00:00:00
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false

linktitle = "Version 4.2.4"
[menu.updates]
  weight = 5
+++

Release Notes tell you what's new in Academic. As always, we welcome your [feedback](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). You can also [file a bug report](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). *Want to update to this version?* Refer to the [update guide]({{< relref "/docs/update.md" >}}) in conjunction with the parameter changes mentioned in the [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes) section below.

## See what's new in Academic!

Welcome to the v4.2.4 release of Academic which adds support for the major new version of Hugo, Hugo v0.55.

These release notes also cover all previous patches (bug fixes) for v4.2.

## Breaking changes

**Hugo v0.55.2+ required**

*Note that Hugo v0.55.0 and v0.55.1 have many bugs are incompatible.*

## Widgets

- fix text color option `text_color_light = true` only working in Safari
- fix People widget error `<.Path>: can't evaluate field Dir in type string`
- fix Slider text color - should be light text on dark background (not dark text)

## Search

- the search dialog is now more intuitive for users to close.

## Other

- fix day/night mode when `highlight=false` or `highlight_style` is set in `params.toml`
- fix page resource links (e.g. PDF, Cite, etc.) not displayed
- fix pagination link error about `RelPermalink`

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big **_Thank You_** to [all the folks](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/graphs/contributors) that helped to make Academic even better.

**Has Academic helped you?** [Please consider supporting Academic.]({{< relref "/#support" >}})
