+++
title = "Version 4.3 (WIP)"

date = 2019-04-27T00:00:00
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false

linktitle = "Version 4.3 (WIP)"
[menu.updates]
  weight = 5
+++

Release Notes tell you what's new in Academic. As always, we welcome your [feedback](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). You can also [file a bug report](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). *Want to update to this version?* Refer to the [update guide]({{< relref "/docs/update.md" >}}) in conjunction with the parameter changes mentioned in the [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes) section below.

{{% alert warning %}}
This version is currently **in development**! It corresponds to the [latest *master* branch on GitHub](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic). Check back here for the final notes once it is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## See what's new in Academic!

Welcome to the v4.3 release of Academic. There are a number of exciting updates in this version that we hope you will like, including:

- **Slides** - if you use code highlighting, the **code highlighting style can now be chosen on a per deck basis** to match the color theme of your slide deck (see [*Slides*](#slides) below)
- Converted CSS styling to SCSS for tighter integration with Bootstrap and Academic's theming system
  - This refactoring is unlikely to affect any custom CSS in *CSS Plugins*
- Fixes (see below) for authors and some tag/category links that were broken by breaking changes in Hugo v0.55

## Breaking changes

Here are some considerations to make when updating Academic from the previous version, v4.2:

- Rename the `author` folder to `authors`
- In `config/_default/config.toml`, remove `"CSS"` from the site `[outputs]` section, yielding:

    ```toml
    [outputs]
    home = [ "HTML", "RSS", "JSON" ]
    section = [ "HTML", "RSS" ]
    ```

- **If you deploy your site with Netlify**, login to Netlify and choose *Settings > Build & deploy > Build image selection* and choose *Ubuntu Xenial 16.04* as the build image. Previous Netlify build images do not fully support all Hugo features.

## Slides

The author of a slide deck can now choose a code highlighting style to match the color theme of the slide deck, if code highlighting is enabled in `config/_default/params.toml`.

For a *light* slide deck, consider adding the following to the bottom of your slide front matter:

```toml
[slides]
theme = "white"  # Reveal JS theme name
highlight_style = "github"  # Highlight JS theme name
```

Whereas, for a *dark* slide deck, consider adding the following to the bottom of your slide front matter:

```toml
[slides]
theme = "black"  # Reveal JS theme name
highlight_style = "dracula"  # Highlight JS theme name
```

Refer to the updated [docs]({{< relref "/docs/managing-content.md#create-slides" >}}) for further info.

## Pages

- fix authors no longer shown on publication page
- fix some tag and category links broken
- fix: Hugo 0.54+ breaks links to user profiles with non-ASCII usernames
  - workaround the Hugo bug by performing a check to remove invalid links to user profiles (i.e. a normal, unlinked author name will be displayed in the page metadata in this case)

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big **_Thank You_** to [all the folks](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/graphs/contributors) that helped to make Academic even better.

**Has Academic helped you?** [Please consider supporting Academic.]({{< relref "/#support" >}})
