+++
title = "Version 4.5 (WIP)"

date = 2019-07-22T00:00:00
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false

linktitle = "Version 4.5 (WIP)"
[menu.updates]
  weight = 5
+++

Release Notes tell you what's new in Academic. As always, we welcome your [feedback](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). You can also [file a bug report](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). *Want to update to this version?* Refer to the [update guide]({{< relref "/docs/update.md" >}}) in conjunction with the parameter changes mentioned in the [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes) section below.

{{% alert warning %}}
This version is currently **in development**! It corresponds to the [latest *master* branch on GitHub](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic). Check back here for the final notes once it is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## See what's new in Academic!

Welcome to the v4.5 release of Academic. There are a number of exciting updates in this version that we hope you will like, including:

- **[Commento](https://commento.io/), a fast, privacy-focused commenting platform is now supported** in addition to [Disqus](https://disqus.com)
- Improved the **Progressive Web App** for **mobile** devices with a splash screen and your theme colours
  - As an example, view the [demo](https://academic-demo.netlify.com/) on a mobile device, touch the three dots to access the web browser menu, and then touch **Add to Home screen**. Instructions will vary slightly depending on browser.
- More flexible **Tag Cloud widget**: choose the taxonomy (tags/categories), number of tags, and font size
  - To use, set the new options in your Tag Cloud section - [example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/master/exampleSite/content/home/tags.md)

## Breaking changes

Here are some considerations to make when updating Academic from the previous version, v4.4:

**Configuration**

**Add to the bottom of `config/_default/params.toml`:**

```toml
# Comments.
[comments]
  # Comment provider:
  #   0: Disabled
  #   1: Disqus (https://disqus.com)
  #   2: Commento (https://commento.io)
  engine = 0

  # Which page types are commentable?
  commentable = {page = true, post = true, docs = true}

  # Configuration of Disqus.
  [comments.disqus]
    shortname = ""  # Paste the shortname from your Disqus dashboard.
    show_count = true  # Show comment count in page header? (true/false)
```

*Editable* in `config/_default/params.toml` can now be set to allow visitors to edit more page types - *Page* and *Post* have been added:

```toml
edit_page = {repo_url = "https://github.com/<USERNAME>/<REPO>", repo_branch = "master", editable = {docs = true, page = false, post = false}}
```

**Change the `[outputs]` section in your `config/_default/config.toml`** from:

```toml
[outputs]
  home = [ "HTML", "RSS", "JSON" ]
  section = [ "HTML", "RSS" ]
```

to

```toml
[outputs]
  home = [ "HTML", "RSS", "JSON", "WebAppManifest" ]
  section = [ "HTML", "RSS" ]

[mediaTypes."application/manifest+json"]
  suffixes = ["webmanifest"]

[outputFormats.WebAppManifest]
  mediaType = "application/manifest+json"
  rel = "manifest"
```

**Icons:**

If overriding icon.png, rename it to icon-32.png and add icon-512.png.

**Improvements to page front matter for pages, posts, and docs page types:**

* To override the global setting to enable or disable commenting on a page: `commentable: true` 
* To override the global setting to enable or disable editing of a page: `editable: true` 

## Misc

- style: fix aside to appear same as alert
  - To try, set `markup: mmark` in front matter and add `A> Some text` to a Markdown file's body
- feat(shortcode): **enable figure lightbox by default** - hover your mouse over a figure to enlarge it
- feat: add **Xing** option to Page Sharer
- feat: **add image to RSS feed**
- refactor: renamed `edit_page.html` to `page_edit.html`
- feat: add git _branch_ option for editing pages
- style: fix category icon and language icon spacing when Hugo's `--minify` is used
- fix: HTML of author page when there is no authored content

## Language Packs

- Updated German

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big **_Thank You_** to [all the folks](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/graphs/contributors) that helped to make Academic even better.

**Has Academic helped you?** [Please consider supporting Academic.]({{< relref "/#support" >}})
