+++
title = "Version 4.6 (WIP)"

date = 2019-09-28T00:00:00
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false

linktitle = "Version 4.6 (WIP)"
[menu.updates]
  weight = 5
+++

Release Notes tell you what's new in Academic. As always, we welcome your [feedback](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). You can also [file a bug report](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). *Want to update to this version?* Refer to the [update guide]({{< relref "/docs/update.md" >}}) in conjunction with the parameter changes mentioned in the [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes) section below.

{{% alert warning %}}
This version is currently **in development**! It corresponds to the [latest *master* branch on GitHub](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic). Check back here for the final notes once it is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## See what's new in Academic!

Welcome to the v4.6 release of Academic. There are a number of exciting updates in this version that we hope you will like, including:

- Based on your feedback, there's now an option to **disable linking authors to their profile page**
  - To disable author links, add `link_authors = false` to the _Advanced_ (or root) section of your `params.toml`
- **Improved robustness of search** to handle diacritics (accents) and Chinese/Korean/Japanese languages
- **New background image options for Widget Page sections**
  - `image_size` can be set to `cover` (default), `contain`, or `actual` size
  - `image_position` can be set to any valid CSS background position including `left`, `center` (default), or `right`
  - `image_parallax` makes the fun parallax-like fixed background effect optional by setting to `true`/`false`
- **Integrated [Google Tag Manager](https://tagmanager.google.com)**, allowing for very powerful analytics without needing to modify any code
- The [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com) integration now uses the modern `gtag.js` approach and only collects data in production (your live site)
- A person's social links can now be shown in the [**People widget**]({{< relref "../docs/page-builder.md#people" >}})
  - See _Breaking Changes_ section below

## Breaking changes

**Hugo Extended v0.58.3+ is now required.**

### Params.toml

**If you wish to use Google Analytics or Google Tag Manager**, then add the following at the end of the file, including your associated tracking code:

```toml
############################
## Marketing
############################
[marketing]
  google_analytics = ""
  google_tag_manager = ""
```

Note that the old `googleAnalytics` option in `config.toml` is still supported, but may be deprecated in a future version.

GA now only tracks users on your live _production_ website. Hugo's default environments are `development` with the `hugo serve` command and `production` with the `hugo` command. You can explicitly set the environment to production with `HUGO_ENV` or Hugo's `--environment` [option](https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo_env/#readout). If you deploy with Netlify, check that your Netlify settings in `netlify.toml` are similar to the [latest Netlify settings in the Academic Kickstart template](https://github.com/sourcethemes/academic-kickstart/blob/master/netlify.toml).

Due to the changes in GA implementation, we recommend testing that your analytics are still working as expected. If they are not, check that your production environment is as described above and check that your URL in your GA admin panel matches your site's URL.

If you choose to use GA via Google Tag Manager instead (`google_tag_manager`), it will override the direct GA implementation (`google_analytics`) to prevent tracking each user twice.

**Linking Authors**

Under the _Advanced_ (root) section, you can optionally add the option for **linking authors** (default is _true_):

```toml
# Link authors to their profile page? (true/false)
link_authors = true
```

**New approach to applying custom style (CSS)**

1. Create the `assets/scss/` folder if it doesn't exist
2. Create a file named `custom.scss`
3. Add your custom CSS code to the file you created and re-run Hugo to view changes

The old `plugins_css` approach in `params.toml` is now deprecated.

### People widget

If you are using the _People_ widget, then you'll need to upgrade your settings. User Groups have moved under `[content]` and additional options have been added under `[design]`:

```toml
widget = "people"  # Use the People widget
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.

# ... Put Your Section Options Here (title etc.) ...

[content]
  # Choose which groups/teams of users to display.
  #   Edit `user_groups` in each user's profile to add them to one or more of these groups.
  user_groups = ["Principal Investigators",
                 "Researchers",
                 "Grad Students",
                 "Administration",
                 "Visitors",
                 "Alumni"]

[design]
  # Show user's social networking links? (true/false)
  show_social = false

  # Show user's interests? (true/false)
  show_interests = true
```

## Fixes

- fix: Hugo v0.58.0 breaks RSS template
- fix(publication): DOI link not shown if it's the only link
- fix: console error when clicking `back_to_top` button (did not affect _Back To Top_ functionality)
- fix: don't show address in Contact if it's an array of empty strings
  - An alternative is to comment out the `address` in Params if it's unused
  
## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big **_Thank You_** to [all the folks](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/graphs/contributors) that helped to make Academic even better.

**Has Academic helped you?** [Please consider supporting Academic.]({{< relref "/#support" >}})
