---
title: Version 4.8 (WIP)
linktitle: Version 4.8 (WIP)
date: 2020-01-23T00:00:00
toc: true
menu:
  updates:
    weight: 5
---

Release Notes tell you what's new in Academic. As always, we welcome your [feedback](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). You can also [file a bug report](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues). *Want to update to this version?* Refer to the [update guide]({{< relref "/docs/update.md" >}}) in conjunction with the parameter changes mentioned in the [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes) section below.

{{% alert warning %}}
This version is currently **in development**! It corresponds to the [latest *master* branch on GitHub](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic). Check back here for the final notes once it is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## See what's new in Academic!

Welcome to the v4.8 release of Academic. There are a number of exciting updates in this version that we hope you will like, including:

- The **shape of avatars** can now be configured as a square or circle
- Re-adds support for **opening external Markdown links in new tabs** using Hugo's new render hooks (the feature broke in Hugo v0.60 and was replaced with an alternative approach in Hugo v0.62)
- **Fix lazy loading of images causing inaccurate anchor scrolling and active link highlighting**
  - As of a previous release, gallery and figure images are lazy loaded to speed up page load. However, lazy loading without initial image sizes defined can lead to inaccurate anchor scrolling and active link highlighting as the anchor offset changes after an uncached image occurring before the anchor is lazily loaded. This update helps resolve this. See [#1199 comment](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/issues/1199#issuecomment-577932174).
  
## Breaking changes

**Hugo Extended v0.62+ required.**

See the latest [parameters](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/blob/master/exampleSite/config/_default/params.toml#L165) for help upgrading the following params:

- `shape` option added under new `[avatar]` section in `params.toml`
- `gravatar` option moved under new `[avatar]` section in `params.toml`

## Fixes

- Fix logo in navbar transforming into site title on mobile. See #1439. Fixes #1507.
- Add support for external_link in archives
  - Improves consistency: external projects are now opened in new tab whether they are viewed from the Portfolio widget or archive page. See #1525.
- Only allow auto day/night when day_night enabled. See #1526.

## Language Packs

Add Latvian language (#1531)
Add Khmer language (#1523)

## Misc

- style: upgrade Bootstrap from 4.3.1 to 4.4.1

## Thank you

Last but certainly not least, a big **_Thank You_** to [all the folks](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic/graphs/contributors) that helped to make Academic even better.

**Has Academic helped you?** [Please consider supporting Academic.]({{< relref "/#support" >}})
